# One Community

An easy-to-use PHP client to access the [One Community](https://www.onecommunity.nl/) API.


## Installation

Using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/):

`composer require onecommunity/client`

Contact us with your [public key](#generating-the-publicprivate-key-pair) to receive your API key.

## Usage

### Initializing the Client
```php
use OneCommunity\Client;

$apiKey = "xxxxxxx";
$projectName = "yourproject";
$userId = 1;

$client = new Client($apiKey, $userId, $projectName);

// Load private key from file..
$client->loadPrivateKey("private_rsa.pem");
// ..or string
$client->setPrivateKey($privateKey);
```

### Sending Requests
See the [Examples](https://github.com/emolifeconnect/onecommunity-php/tree/master/examples) directory for working examples.

#### UserRequest
Returns the `User` object of the authenticated user. Great for testing.
```php
use OneCommunity\Requests\UserRequest;

$request = new UserRequest;
$response = $client->send($request);

if ($response->isSuccessful()) {
    var_dump($response->getData());
}
```

#### SendTransactionalMailRequest
```php
use OneCommunity\Requests\SendTransactionalMailRequest;

$accountId = 1; // Recipient
$transactionalMailId = 1; // Mail

$request = new SendTransactionalMailRequest($accountId, $transactionalMailId);
$request->setSubstitutions(['gift' => 'Free coffee ☕']);

$response = $client->send($request);
```

### Responses
The following HTTP status codes are used:

HTTP Status Code | Description
---------------- | -----------
200 OK | Everything is OK, the body contains the payload.
400 Bad Request | Indicates an authentication error.
404 Not Found | Some ID refers to an unknown model (e.g., unknown account or mail).
422 Unprocessable Entity | Validation errors.
429 Too Many Requests | You cannot send more than 60 requests per minute.

If anything unexpected occurs a `OneCommunity\Exceptions\RequestException` is thrown (e.g., if the API does not return a valid JSON response).

All responses (except `200 OK`) contain a `message` attribute, explaining what went wrong. Furthermore, `400 Bad Requests` responses contain a `code` attribute which can contain one of the following values:

code | message
---- | --------
100 | Invalid API key
101 | Could not decode Bearer token
102 | No API key found on request
103 | No Bearer token found on request
104 | Token could not be verified
201 | Client not found
202 | User not found or not accessible by this API Client
501 | No access to this project or invalid project
502 | No access from this IP

The validation errors of a `422 Unprocessable Entity` response are structured as follows:

```json
{
    "errors": {
        "field1": [
            "error1",
            "error2"
        ],
        "field2": [
            "error3"
        ]
    }
}
```


## Security
The API is based on [JWT API](https://github.com/jarnovanleeuwen/jwtapi), an efficient and secure machine-to-machine API using JSON Web Tokens and asymmetric request signing. Advantages of this approach include:

- Requests and responses are send over a secure channel.
- Requests can only be signed by the API consumer (providing non-repudiation).
- Requests are only valid for a short time (avoiding replay attacks).

Due to the asymmetric nature of this protocol, a public/private key pair needs to be generated (RSA 2048 bit). The key pair can be generated by issuing the following commands. Please send your public key (`public_rsa.pem`) to us and keep your private key safe.

### Generating the Public/Private Key Pair
```bash
# Generates RSA private key of 2048 bit size
openssl genrsa -out private_rsa.pem 2048

# Generates public key from the private key
openssl rsa -in private_rsa.pem -outform PEM -pubout -out public_rsa.pem
```
